# Environment Variables in Linux

- Environment variables in Linux are key-value pairs that influence the behavior of processes and applications.
- They are used to configure system settings, user preferences, and software behavior.
- Environment variables control the behavior of the software package installed in Linux.
- The path where the packages have been installed will be specified in environment variables.

## Common Environment Variables

- **`HOME`**: The current user's home directory.
- **`PATH`**: A colon-separated list of directories that the shell searches for executable files.
- **`USER`**: The name of the current user.
- **`SHELL`**: The path to the current user's shell.
- **`PWD`**: The current working directory.
- **`LANG`**: The locale settings for language and region.

## Viewing Environment Variables

- To view all environment variables in the terminal, use:
  ```bash
  printenv
  ```
  [or]
  ```bash
  env
  ```

- To display the value of a specific environment variable.
  ```
  echo $HOME
  ```

## Setting Environment Variables

- **Temporarily**: For the current session or until the terminal is closed.
  ```
  export VARIABLE_NAME=value
  ```
  example: - `export MY_VAR="Hello, World!"`

- **Permanently**: For all future sessions, add the variable to configuration files like ~/.bashrc, ~/.bash_profile, or ~/.profile (depending on the shell and system configuration).
  ```
  echo 'export MY_VAR="Hello, World!"' >> ~/.bashrc
  ```
  Then, apply the changes:

  ```
  source ~/.bashrc
  ```
## Unsetting Environment Variables
- **Temporarily**: For the current session.
  ```
  unset VARIABLE_NAME
  ```
